# Mathematics for Electrical Science and Physical Science – 3

## Course Information  

country: "india"
university: "ktu"
branch: "safety-and-fire-engineering"
version: "2024"
semester: 3
course_code: "gymat301"
course_title: "mathematics-for-electrical-science-and-physical-science-3"
language: "english"
contributor: "@FousiyaN"

---

## Course Objectives  


1. To introduce the concept and applications of Fourier transforms in various engineering fields.
2. To introduce the basic theory of functions of a complex variable, including residue integration and conformal transformation, and their applications.
3. To enable students to analyze complex integrals using Cauchy’s theorems and apply them in solving real-world engineering problems.
4. To develop the ability to expand complex functions in Taylor, Maclaurin, and Laurent series and apply residue theorem for evaluating integrals.
5. To build a strong foundation in applying advanced mathematical tools for solving problems in electrical, physical, and fire safety engineering domains.
---

## Course Content  

**Module 1(Fourier Transforms)**  
- Fourier Integral, From Fourier series to Fourier Integral, Fourier Cosine and Sine integrals  
- Fourier Cosine and Sine Transform  
- Linearity, Transforms of Derivatives  
- Fourier Transform and its inverse  

**Module 2(Complex Functions and Conformal Mapping)**  
- Complex Function: Limit, Continuity, Derivative, Analytic functions  
- Cauchy-Riemann Equations (without proof), Laplace’s Equations, Harmonic functions  
- Finding harmonic conjugate, Conformal mapping  
- Mappings of w = z², w = e^z, w = sin z  

**Module 3(Complex Integration and Cauchy’s Theorems)**  
- Complex Integration: Line integrals in the complex plane (Definition & Properties)  
- Evaluation methods (First & Second)  
- Cauchy’s integral theorem (without proof), Independence of path  
- Cauchy integral theorem on multiply connected domain (without proof)  
- Cauchy Integral formula (without proof)  

**Module 4(Series Expansions and Residue Theorem)**  
- Taylor series and Maclaurin series, Laurent series (without proof)  
- Singularities and Zeros: Isolated Singularity, Poles, Essential Singularities, Removable singularities  
- Residue theorem (without proof), Residue Integration  
- Integral of Rational Functions of cosθ and sinθ  

## References  

1. Dennis G. Zill, Patrick D. Shanahan, *Complex Analysis*, Jones & Bartlett, 3rd edition, 2015.  
2. B. V. Ramana, *Higher Engineering Mathematics*, McGraw-Hill Education, 39th edition, 2023.  
3. B.S. Grewal, *Higher Engineering Mathematics*, Khanna Publishers, 44th edition, 2018.  
4. K.R. Rao, Do Nyeon Kim, Jae Jeong Hwang, *Fast Fourier Transform - Algorithms and Applications*, Springer, 1st edition, 2011.  
5. Erwin Kreyszig, *Advanced Engineering Mathematics*, John Wiley & Sons, 10th edition, 2016.  
